Home.md, before:

### Welcome to the Flapjack Wiki.

Sections:

- [Using Flapjack](wiki/USING)
- [API](wiki/API)
- [Notification Routing](wiki/Notification-Routing)
- [Importing](wiki/IMPORTING)
- [Debugging Flapjack](wiki/DEBUGGING)
- [Developing Flapjack](wiki/DEVELOPING)
- [Redis Data Structure](wiki/DATA_STRUCTURES)
- [Flapjack Glossary](wiki/GLOSSARY)
- [Releasing Flapjack](wiki/Releasing)
- Methods for [promoting Flapjack](wiki/Promoting)

### Logo

Formats:

* [JPEG](https://raw.github.com/wiki/flpjck/flapjack/flapjack.jpg)
* [PNG](https://raw.github.com/wiki/flpjck/flapjack/flapjack.png)
* [EPS](https://raw.github.com/wiki/flpjck/flapjack/flapjack.eps)

Or download the
[logo bundle zip](https://raw.github.com/wiki/flpjck/flapjack/flapjack.zip)
(includes the Illustrator source).

The Flapjack logo is shared under the
[Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 3.0 Unported (CC BY-SA 3.0)](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/deed.en_US)
license.

### Sources

* [Architecture diagrams](https://raw.github.com/wiki/flpjck/flapjack/Flapjack%20Architecture.key)

Commit message:

Add a link to the apple colour palette for the Flapjack project

Home.md, after:

### Welcome to the Flapjack Wiki.

Sections:

- [Using Flapjack](wiki/USING)
- [API](wiki/API)
- [Notification Routing](wiki/Notification-Routing)
- [Importing](wiki/IMPORTING)
- [Debugging Flapjack](wiki/DEBUGGING)
- [Developing Flapjack](wiki/DEVELOPING)
- [Redis Data Structure](wiki/DATA_STRUCTURES)
- [Flapjack Glossary](wiki/GLOSSARY)
- [Releasing Flapjack](wiki/Releasing)
- Methods for [promoting Flapjack](wiki/Promoting)

### Logo

Formats:

* [JPEG](https://raw.github.com/wiki/flpjck/flapjack/flapjack.jpg)
* [PNG](https://raw.github.com/wiki/flpjck/flapjack/flapjack.png)
* [EPS](https://raw.github.com/wiki/flpjck/flapjack/flapjack.eps)

Or download the
[logo bundle zip](https://raw.github.com/wiki/flpjck/flapjack/flapjack.zip)
(includes the Illustrator source).

The Flapjack logo is shared under the
[Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 3.0 Unported (CC BY-SA 3.0)](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/deed.en_US)
license.

There is an [Apple colour palette](https://raw.github.com/wiki/flpjck/flapjack/artwork/Flapjack.clr) available for use on OS X.

### Sources

* [Architecture diagrams](https://raw.github.com/wiki/flpjck/flapjack/Flapjack%20Architecture.key)
