oobetet.md, before:

The "Out Of Band, End To End Test" (oobetet) is a self-check mechanism within Flapjack that verifies the stream of events from the upstream event producers is current. 

The oobetet verifies this currency of the event stream by watching for a state change on a specific check within a period of time. 

If the oobetet does not observe a state change, it fires an alert. 

This helps you identify when your upstream event producers have gotten stuck, e.g. Nagios has hung, the node has gone away, etc.

## How it works

The oobetet works like this:

![oobetet high level](artwork/oobetet-high-level.png)

Let's start at the bottom of the diagram. 

The oobetet watches for a specific check on a specific entity. If it detects that check doesn't change state within a period of (we recommend 5 minutes), it will fire an alert. 

Here is an example oobetet config from the Flapjack configuration file:


``` 
oobetet:
  enabled: yes
  server: "jabber.example.com"
  port: 5222
  jabberid: "flapjacktest@jabber.example.com"
  password: "nuther-good-password"
  alias: "flapjacktest"
  watched_check: "Flapper"
  watched_entity: "flapper-on-nagios-01.example.org"
  max_latency: 300
  pagerduty_contact: "11111111111111111111111111111111"
  rooms:
    - "flapjacktest@conference.jabber.example.com"
    - "gimp@conference.jabber.example.com"
    - "log@conference.jabber.example.com"
  logger:
    level: INFO
    syslog_errors: yes
```

The key configuration sections are: 

 - `watched_check` - what check should oobetet should watch for the state change.
 - `watched_entity` - what entity that check should be associated with. 
 - `max_latency` - the maximum amount of time allowed to pass between state changes on that check. 
  
  
### Event producers

The upstream monitoring check is expected to switch between states within that time period. If it does not an alert will fire. 

Assuming you're running Nagios as your check execution engine, and your Nagios is hooked up to Flapjack with `flapjack-nagios-receiver`, here's an example Nagios config to setup a flapping service:

```
define host {
  use            base
  host_name      flapper-on-nagios-01.example.org
  alias          flapper-on-nagios-01
  address        192.168.100.10
}

define service {
  use                 base
  host_name           flapper-on-nagios-01.example.org
  service_description Flapper
  check_command       check_tcp!12345
  check_interval      10
  retry_interval      10
}

define command {
  command_name check_tcp
  command_line $USER1$/check_tcp -H $HOSTADDRESS$ -p $ARG1$
}
```

Flapjack ships a Flapper service that the above `check_tcp` check queries. The Flapper service oscillates between opening and closing TCP port 12345, at a user-specified frequency (the default is 120 seconds). 

You start it like this:

```
flapper start
```

## Stringing it all together

With the above configuration:

 - Nagios checks the Flapper service is available every 10 seconds
 - Nagios reports the events to Flapjack via the `flapjack-nagios-receiver`
 - Flapjack passes the state change notifications to the oobetet
 - The oobetet checks the notifications are coming through at least every 5 minutes
 - If the oobetet detects the state changes aren't happening, it sends a notification

Commit message:

add more details to the oobetet documentation - still needs a new diagram

oobetet.md, after:

The "Out Of Band, End To End Test" (oobetet) is a self-check mechanism that verifies the stream of events from the upstream event producers is current, and that flapjack is able to emit alerts in a timely fasion to a jabber multi user chat room.

The oobetet verifies this currency of the event stream by sitting in a jabber multi use chat room and watching for problem and recovery notifications for a specific check.

If the oobetet does not observe state changes within a certain timeframe, it fires an alert, via jabber and pagerduty.

This helps you identify when your upstream event producers have gotten stuck, e.g. Nagios has hung, the node has gone away, etc.

## How it works

The oobetet works like this:

![oobetet high level](artwork/oobetet-high-level.png)

Flapper is a process that oscillates between up (listening on a tcp port) and down (not listening). The oscillation frequency is 2 minutes by default.

Your check execution engine (eg Icinga, Sensu, Nagios, ...) is configured to monitor the Flapper with a high frequency, eg every 10 seconds, and pases on the results of all checks to Flapjack's event processor (via flapjack-nagios-receiver or flapjackfeeder).

Flapjack is configured with a contact that is interested in the Flapper check, and who has one of the Jabber chat rooms as it's Jabber contact address. Flapjack will therefore generate alerts in this Jabber chat room about Flapper going up, down, up, down, continuously.

The oobetet pikelet connects to the jabber server and joins the room to which Flapjack is sending alerts for Flapper. It then watches for alerts in the chat room for Flapper. If it detects that Flapper doesn't change state within a period of time (we recommend 5 minutes), it will fire an alert, both by Jabber back into this chat room, and to Pagerduty.

Here is an example oobetet config from the Flapjack configuration file:


```
oobetet:
  enabled: yes
  server: "jabber.example.com"
  port: 5222
  jabberid: "flapjacktest@jabber.example.com"
  password: "nuther-good-password"
  alias: "flapjacktest"
  watched_check: "Flapper"
  watched_entity: "flapper-on-nagios-01.example.org"
  max_latency: 300
  pagerduty_contact: "11111111111111111111111111111111"
  rooms:
    - "flapjacktest@conference.jabber.example.com"
    - "gimp@conference.jabber.example.com"
    - "log@conference.jabber.example.com"
  logger:
    level: INFO
    syslog_errors: yes
```

The key configuration sections are:

 - `watched_check` - what check should oobetet should watch for the state change.
 - `watched_entity` - what entity that check should be associated with.
 - `max_latency` - the maximum amount of time allowed to pass between state changes on that check.
 - `pagerduty_contact` - the API key for a service in PagerDuty that oobetet will use to alert you
 - `server`, `port`, `jabberid`, `password` - Jabber server connection and authentication credentials
 - `rooms` - Jabber rooms to join

### Event producers

The upstream monitoring check is expected to switch between states within that time period. If it does not an alert will fire.

Assuming you're running Nagios as your check execution engine, and your Nagios is hooked up to Flapjack with `flapjack-nagios-receiver`, here's an example Nagios config to setup a flapping service:

```
define host {
  use            base
  host_name      flapper-on-nagios-01.example.org
  alias          flapper-on-nagios-01
  address        192.168.100.10
}

define service {
  use                 base
  host_name           flapper-on-nagios-01.example.org
  service_description Flapper
  check_command       check_tcp!12345
  check_interval      10
  retry_interval      10
}

define command {
  command_name check_tcp
  command_line $USER1$/check_tcp -H $HOSTADDRESS$ -p $ARG1$
}
```

Flapjack ships a Flapper service that the above `check_tcp` check queries. The Flapper service oscillates between opening and closing TCP port 12345, at a user-specified frequency (the default is 120 seconds).

You start it like this:

```
flapper start
```

## Stringing it all together

With the above configuration:

 - Nagios checks the Flapper service is available every 10 seconds
 - Nagios reports the events to Flapjack via the `flapjack-nagios-receiver`
 - Flapjack generates alerts for Flapper in a Jabber chat room
 - Oobetet watches for these alerts in the Jabber chat room
 - The oobetet checks the notifications are coming through at least every 5 minutes
 - If the oobetet detects the state changes aren't happening, it sends notifications to PagerDuty and Jabber
