source/docs/1.0/usage/quickstart.md, before:

# Quickstart

This quickstart guide will get you [Flapjack](http://flapjack.io/) running in a VM locally using Vagrant and VirtualBox.

You'll also learn the basics of how to:

- Configure Flapjack
- Simulate a failure of a monitored service
- Integrate Flapjack with Nagios (or Icinga), so Flapjack takes over alerting

To skip this tutorial and jump straight to the code, view the project on [GitHub](https://github.com/flapjack/flapjack).

## Getting Flapjack running

### Dependencies

- [Vagrant](http://vagrantup.com/) 1.2+
- [VirtualBox](https://www.virtualbox.org/wiki/Downloads) 4.2+
  (or an alternative provider such as [VMware Fusion](http://www.vmware.com/au/products/fusion/)
  and the [Vagrant plugin](http://www.vagrantup.com/vmware)

### Setup

Get the repo, and build your Vagrant box:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/flapjack/vagrant-flapjack.git
cd vagrant-flapjack
vagrant up
```

For an alternative provider to VirtualBox (e.g. VMware Fusion), you can specify the provider when running `vagrant up`:

```bash
vagrant up --provider=vmware_fusion
```

<div class="alert alert-info">
<strong>More information:</strong>
Check out the <a class="alert-link" href="https://github.com/flapjack/vagrant-flapjack">vagrant-flapjack</a> project on GitHub.
</div>

## Using Flapjack

Flapjack will now be visible at [http://localhost:3080](http://localhost:3080) from your host workstation.
You should see the Flapjack Web UI:

![Screenshot of the Flapjack Web UI](/images/1.0/quickstart/web-ui.png)

To continue with this guide, SSH into the vagrant box:

``` bash
vagrant ssh
```

You'll find the commands under `/opt/flapjack/bin`:

```bash
export PATH=$PATH:/opt/flapjack/bin
flapjack help
flapjack simulate help
```

<div class="alert alert-info">
Details of these commands are available <a class="alert-link" href="USING#running">here</a>.
</div>

### The checks

Flapjack can receive notifications from a number of different systems.  When it does, the machine, otherwise known as the entity, and the check, are automatically created in flapjack.

For now, we'll create our own  using Flapjack's simulate command:

```bash
flapjack simulate fail \
  --entity restaurant1 \
  --check bacon \
  --interval 1 \
  --time 0.1
flapjack simulate ok \
  --entity restaurant1 \
  --check eggs \
  --interval 1 \
  --time 0.1
flapjack simulate fail_and_recover \
  --entity restaurant2 \
  --check pancakes \
  --interval 1 \
  --time 0.1
```

The definition of these commands are as follows:

```text
flapjack simulate fail             - Generate a stream of failure events
flapjack simulate fail_and_recover - Generate a stream of failure events, and one final recovery
flapjack simulate ok               - Generate a stream of ok events
```

You can now see these under the [list of entities](http://localhost:3080/entities) and [list of checks](http://localhost:3080/checks).

![Screenshot of the list of checks](/images/1.0/quickstart/check-list.png)

#### Maintenance (including acknowledgements)

There are two types of maintenance - scheduled and unscheduled maintenance.  An acknowledgment counts as an unscheduled maintenance.

All checks are created with a default period of scheduled maintenance, usually 100 years.  

Click the 'End Now' button on the [Bacon check](http://localhost:3080/check?entity=restaurant1&check=bacon) to end this maintenance.

#### Unscheduled downtime (acknowledgements)

Our Bacon check is now critical, and sending out alerts.  To acknowledge this check, and silence the alerts, we add unscheduled maintenance for a period of time by filling out the [Acknowledge Alert](http://localhost:3080/check?entity=restaurant1&check=bacon) box.

![Screenshot of adding unscheduled maintenance](/images/1.0/quickstart/add-unscheduled-maintenance.png)

If you want to add more scheduled maintenance, fill out the 'Add Scheduled Maintenance' box further down the page.

You can also add, list and remove maintenance by using the CLI tool `flapjack maintenance`:

```bash
flapjack maintenance show   - Show maintenance windows according to criteria (default: all ongoing maintenance)
flapjack maintenance delete - Delete maintenance windows according to criteria (default: all ongoing maintenance)
flapjack maintenance create - Create a maintenance window
```

### The people

Contacts can be created using the 'edit contacts' button on the [contacts page](http://localhost:3080/contacts).

![Screenshot of new user creation](/images/1.0/quickstart/add-new-user.png)

To add media to contacts (such as an email address and a pager number), go to the [edit contacts page](http://localhost:3080/edit_contacts), mouseover the name, and click the 'media' button.

![Screenshot of adding media to user](/images/1.0/quickstart/add-media-to-user.png)

Contacts can also be added through the [API](http://flapjack.io/docs/1.0/jsonapi/#contacts)

From here, we add entities the given contact should be alerted about.  To do this, go back to the [edit contacts page](http://localhost:3080/edit_contacts), mouseover the name, and click the 'entity' button.  Select the entities to add, and click 'Add Entities'.

![Screenshot of adding entities to user](/images/1.0/quickstart/add-entities-to-user.png)

The bottom of the [check page](http://localhost:3080/check?entity=restaurant1&check=bacon) lists which contacts will be notified of events.

### The outputs

To enable gateways, edit /etc/flapjack/flapjack_config.yaml and update the enabled flag for the given gateways:

```text
gateways:
  # Generates email notifications
  email:
    enabled: yes
```

Further configuration options are available in each of the gateway blocks.

### Getting real data into Flapjack

Both Nagios and Icinga are configured already to append check output data to the following named pipe: `/var/cache/nagios3/event_stream.fifo`.

`flapjack receiver nagios` takes check output data from Nagios and turns it into events that Flapjack understands:

![Flapjack's architecture](/images/1.0/quickstart/architecture.png)

All that remains is to start the receiver up:

``` bash
sudo /etc/init.d/flapjack receiver nagios start
```

More details on configuration are available [here](../USING#configuring-components).

### Feedback?

Found an error in the above? Please [submit a bug report](https://github.com/flapjack/flapjack/issues/new) and/or a pull request against the [gh-pages branch](https://github.com/flapjack/flapjack/tree/gh-pages) with the fix.

Something not clear? That's a bug too!

Got questions? Suggestions? Talk to us via irc, mailing list, or twitter. See [Support](/support) for details.

### Coming soon

Stay tuned for more info on how to configure:

- notification rules
- intervals
- summary thresholds

In the mean time, check out:

 - [Documentation](../IMPORTING) on how to import contacts and entities
 - [JSONAPI documentation](../../jsonapi) for working with individual contacts and entities
 - [Flapjack-diner](https://github.com/flapjack/flapjack-diner), the ruby interface to Flapjack

Commit message:

Prefer the flapjack broker module, remove references to USING

source/docs/1.0/usage/quickstart.md, after:

# Quickstart

This quickstart guide will get you [Flapjack](http://flapjack.io/) running in a VM locally using Vagrant and VirtualBox.

You'll also learn the basics of how to:

- Configure Flapjack
- Simulate a failure of a monitored service
- Integrate Flapjack with Nagios (or Icinga), so Flapjack takes over alerting

To skip this tutorial and jump straight to the code, view the project on [GitHub](https://github.com/flapjack/flapjack).

## Getting Flapjack running

### Dependencies

- [Vagrant](http://vagrantup.com/) 1.2+
- [VirtualBox](https://www.virtualbox.org/wiki/Downloads) 4.2+
  (or an alternative provider such as [VMware Fusion](http://www.vmware.com/au/products/fusion/)
  and the [Vagrant plugin](http://www.vagrantup.com/vmware)

### Setup

Get the repo, and build your Vagrant box:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/flapjack/vagrant-flapjack.git
cd vagrant-flapjack
vagrant up
```

For an alternative provider to VirtualBox (e.g. VMware Fusion), you can specify the provider when running `vagrant up`:

```bash
vagrant up --provider=vmware_fusion
```

<div class="alert alert-info">
<strong>More information:</strong>
Check out the <a class="alert-link" href="https://github.com/flapjack/vagrant-flapjack">vagrant-flapjack</a> project on GitHub.
</div>

## Using Flapjack

Flapjack will now be visible at [http://localhost:3080](http://localhost:3080) from your host workstation.
You should see the Flapjack Web UI:

![Screenshot of the Flapjack Web UI](/images/1.0/quickstart/web-ui.png)

To continue with this guide, SSH into the vagrant box:

``` bash
vagrant ssh
```

You'll find the commands under `/opt/flapjack/bin`:

```bash
export PATH=$PATH:/opt/flapjack/bin
flapjack help
flapjack simulate help
```

### The checks

Flapjack can receive notifications from a number of different systems.  When it does, the machine, otherwise known as the entity, and the check, are automatically created in flapjack.

For now, we'll create our own  using Flapjack's simulate command:

```bash
flapjack simulate fail \
  --entity restaurant1 \
  --check bacon \
  --interval 1 \
  --time 0.1
flapjack simulate ok \
  --entity restaurant1 \
  --check eggs \
  --interval 1 \
  --time 0.1
flapjack simulate fail_and_recover \
  --entity restaurant2 \
  --check pancakes \
  --interval 1 \
  --time 0.1
```

The definition of these commands are as follows:

```text
flapjack simulate fail             - Generate a stream of failure events
flapjack simulate fail_and_recover - Generate a stream of failure events, and one final recovery
flapjack simulate ok               - Generate a stream of ok events
```

You can now see these under the [list of entities](http://localhost:3080/entities) and [list of checks](http://localhost:3080/checks).

![Screenshot of the list of checks](/images/1.0/quickstart/check-list.png)

#### Maintenance (including acknowledgements)

There are two types of maintenance - scheduled and unscheduled maintenance.  An acknowledgment counts as an unscheduled maintenance.

All checks are created with a default period of scheduled maintenance, usually 100 years.  

Click the 'End Now' button on the [Bacon check](http://localhost:3080/check?entity=restaurant1&check=bacon) to end this maintenance.

#### Unscheduled downtime (acknowledgements)

Our Bacon check is now critical, and sending out alerts.  To acknowledge this check, and silence the alerts, we add unscheduled maintenance for a period of time by filling out the [Acknowledge Alert](http://localhost:3080/check?entity=restaurant1&check=bacon) box.

![Screenshot of adding unscheduled maintenance](/images/1.0/quickstart/add-unscheduled-maintenance.png)

If you want to add more scheduled maintenance, fill out the 'Add Scheduled Maintenance' box further down the page.

You can also add, list and remove maintenance by using the CLI tool `flapjack maintenance`:

```bash
flapjack maintenance show   - Show maintenance windows according to criteria (default: all ongoing maintenance)
flapjack maintenance delete - Delete maintenance windows according to criteria (default: all ongoing maintenance)
flapjack maintenance create - Create a maintenance window
```

### The people

Contacts can be created using the 'edit contacts' button on the [contacts page](http://localhost:3080/contacts).

![Screenshot of new user creation](/images/1.0/quickstart/add-new-user.png)

To add media to contacts (such as an email address and a pager number), go to the [edit contacts page](http://localhost:3080/edit_contacts), mouseover the name, and click the 'media' button.

![Screenshot of adding media to user](/images/1.0/quickstart/add-media-to-user.png)

Contacts can also be added through the [API](http://flapjack.io/docs/1.0/jsonapi/#contacts)

From here, we add entities the given contact should be alerted about.  To do this, go back to the [edit contacts page](http://localhost:3080/edit_contacts), mouseover the name, and click the 'entity' button.  Select the entities to add, and click 'Add Entities'.

![Screenshot of adding entities to user](/images/1.0/quickstart/add-entities-to-user.png)

The bottom of the [check page](http://localhost:3080/check?entity=restaurant1&check=bacon) lists which contacts will be notified of events.

### The outputs

To enable gateways, edit /etc/flapjack/flapjack_config.yaml and update the enabled flag for the given gateways:

```text
gateways:
  # Generates email notifications
  email:
    enabled: yes
```

Further configuration options are available in each of the gateway blocks.

### Getting real data into Flapjack

```text
# modified lines:
enable_notifications=0
broker_module=/usr/local/lib/flapjackfeeder.o redis_host=localhost,redis_port=6380
```

Both Nagios and Icinga are configured already to send data to Flapjack's broker module, which sends it to redis, in place of the earlier Flapjack Nagios receiver.

![Flapjack's architecture](/images/1.0/quickstart/architecture.png)

More details on configuration are available [here](../Configuring-Nagios).

### Feedback?

Found an error in the above? Please [submit a bug report](https://github.com/flapjack/flapjack/issues/new) and/or a pull request against the [flapjack.io repository](https://github.com/flapjack/flapjack.io) with the fix.

Something not clear? That's a bug too!

Got questions? Suggestions? Talk to us via irc, mailing list, or twitter. See [Support](/support) for details.

### Coming soon

Stay tuned for more info on how to configure:

- notification rules
- intervals
- summary thresholds

In the mean time, check out:

 - [Documentation](../IMPORTING) on how to import contacts and entities
 - [JSONAPI documentation](../../jsonapi) for working with individual contacts and entities
 - [Flapjack-diner](https://github.com/flapjack/flapjack-diner), the ruby interface to Flapjack
