source/docs/1.0/usage/Tutorial.md, before:

# Flapjack Tutorial Attendee Preparation

You will get the most out of the tutorial if you've got Flapjack running locally on your laptop beforehand. The simplest way to do this is to install flapjack as per the [Quickstart](http://flapjack.io/quickstart), which involves installing [VirtualBox](https://www.virtualbox.org/) and [Vagrant](http://www.vagrantup.com/), cloning [vagrant-flapjack](https://github.com/flapjack/vagrant-flapjack) and running `vagrant up` within it.

There's a bit to download with that, so it's best to do this in your own time before the conference.

You don't need to have done the rest of the quickstart, though it can't hurt. The main thing is to have Flapjack running locally and to have Icinga or Nagios sending it check execution results. This is all taken care of by the `vagrant up` within [vagrant-flapjack](https://github.com/flapjack/vagrant-flapjack).

We are updating the vagrant-flapjack repo regularly so please ensure you go a `git pull` and `vagrant provision` in your vagrant-flapjack directory just before coming to the tutorial.

Come back to this page closer to the time of the tutorial to check if we've added any other optional preparation steps.

## Tutorial Sessions

- [Velocity New York 2014](http://velocityconf.com/velocityny2014/public/schedule/detail/35835) 15 September 2014, New York, NY, USA
- [Monitorama PDX 2014](http://monitorama.com/) 7 May 2014, Portland, OR, USA
- [Linux.conf.au 2014](http://lca2014.linux.org.au/schedule/30261/view_talk?day=wednesday) 8 January 2014, Perth, Australia

Commit message:

add version info for vagrant and virtualbox

source/docs/1.0/usage/Tutorial.md, after:

# Flapjack Tutorial Attendee Preparation

You will get the most out of the tutorial if you've got Flapjack running locally on your laptop beforehand. The simplest way to do this is to install flapjack as per the [Quickstart](http://flapjack.io/quickstart), which involves installing [VirtualBox](https://www.virtualbox.org/) and [Vagrant](http://www.vagrantup.com/), cloning [vagrant-flapjack](https://github.com/flapjack/vagrant-flapjack) and running `vagrant up` within it.

You'll need Vagrant 1.5 or higher. A recent VirtualBox is recommended. `vagrant-flapjack` is currently tested with the following versions:
- Vagrant 1.6.3
- VirtualBox 4.3.14

There's a bit to download with that, so it's best to do this in your own time before the conference.

You don't need to have done the rest of the quickstart, though it can't hurt. The main thing is to have Flapjack running locally and to have Icinga or Nagios sending it check execution results. This is all taken care of by the `vagrant up` within [vagrant-flapjack](https://github.com/flapjack/vagrant-flapjack).

We are updating the vagrant-flapjack repo regularly so please ensure you go a `git pull` and `vagrant provision` in your vagrant-flapjack directory just before coming to the tutorial.

Come back to this page closer to the time of the tutorial to check if we've added any other optional preparation steps.

## Tutorial Sessions

- [Velocity New York 2014](http://velocityconf.com/velocityny2014/public/schedule/detail/35835) 15 September 2014, New York, NY, USA
- [Monitorama PDX 2014](http://monitorama.com/) 7 May 2014, Portland, OR, USA
- [Linux.conf.au 2014](http://lca2014.linux.org.au/schedule/30261/view_talk?day=wednesday) 8 January 2014, Perth, Australia
