source/docs/1.0/index.md, before:

# Documentation

 - The [quickstart guide](quickstart) shows you how to get Flapjack running in a VM locally using Vagrant and VirtualBox, and teaches you the basics of working with Flapjack.
 - The [FAQ](faq) covers common questions asked about Flapjack, and pointers to other resources.
 - The [JSONAPI documentation](jsonapi) covers the API for working with Flapjack data.
 - The [wiki](wiki) has many guides and in-depth documentation, including how to [debug](DEBUGGING) and [develop](DEVELOPING) Flapjack.

## Presentations

Finding signal in the monitoring noise with Flapjack by [Lindsay Holmwood](https://twitter.com/auxesis) &amp; [Jesse Reynolds](https://twitter.com/jessereynolds), from linux.conf.au 2014:

<script async class="speakerdeck-embed" data-id="edad17e05a79013198bb160749daae2c" data-ratio="1.33333333333333" src="//speakerdeck.com/assets/embed.js"></script>

Data driven alerting with Flapjack + Puppet + Hiera at Puppetcamp Sydney 2014:

<iframe width="480" height="360" src="//www.youtube.com/embed/pV-kv9J-w-Q?rel=0" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

Commit message:

Better place for logo, etc

source/docs/1.0/index.md, after:

# Documentation

 - The [quickstart guide](quickstart) shows you how to get Flapjack running in a VM locally using Vagrant and VirtualBox, and teaches you the basics of working with Flapjack.
 - The [FAQ](faq) covers common questions asked about Flapjack, and pointers to other resources.
 - The [JSONAPI documentation](jsonapi) covers the API for working with Flapjack data.
 - The [wiki](wiki) has many guides and in-depth documentation, including how to [debug](DEBUGGING) and [develop](DEVELOPING) Flapjack.

## Logo

Formats:

* [JPEG](/images/flapjack.jpg)
* [PNG](/images/flapjack.png)
* [EPS](/images/flapjack.eps)

Or download the
[logo bundle zip](/images/flapjack.zip)
(includes the Illustrator source).

The Flapjack logo is shared under the
[Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 3.0 Unported (CC BY-SA 3.0)](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/deed.en_US)
license.

Font used in logo is [Exo](http://www.google.com/fonts/specimen/Exo).

There is an [Apple colour palette](/images/Flapjack.clr) available for use on OS X.

## Sources

* [Architecture diagrams](/images/FlapjackArchitecture.key)

## Presentations

Finding signal in the monitoring noise with Flapjack by [Lindsay Holmwood](https://twitter.com/auxesis) &amp; [Jesse Reynolds](https://twitter.com/jessereynolds), from linux.conf.au 2014:

<script async class="speakerdeck-embed" data-id="edad17e05a79013198bb160749daae2c" data-ratio="1.33333333333333" src="//speakerdeck.com/assets/embed.js"></script>

Data driven alerting with Flapjack + Puppet + Hiera at Puppetcamp Sydney 2014:

<iframe width="480" height="360" src="//www.youtube.com/embed/pV-kv9J-w-Q?rel=0" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>
